---
title: Foursquare & Yipit- Deals With Personal Context
desc:  Smarter, and more targeted local deals
---

Many of us wake up every morning, and one the first things we do are reach over to our nightstand, or under our pillow (you might have a problem if it is under your pillow) grab our smartphones, and begin to check our email.  Too many mornings I found myself doing this exact thing, but when checking my email, before I could get to anything important, I would have to delete the overnight onslaught of daily deals that I subscribed to.  To clean up my inbox, I decided to sign up for Yipit, a daily deal aggregator that allows me to custom tailor the deals I want to be shown based on my interests.  No more bikini wax, and Botox deals being shoved into my face everyday.  I now visit the Yipit site whenever I want, and I am welcomed with a feed of deals that are relevant to me.  Yipit has taken the personally tailored deals experience one step further by allowing me to connect my Yipit account to my Foursquare profile.  Now I am able to see if any of the venues on any of my Foursquare lists is currently offering a deal.  I think this is an incredible idea, if a venue is on my Foursquare list that means it is somewhere I already want to try.  If I know a deal is available there, I am more likely to purchase the deal, and actually visit the venue. The collaboration of these two services seamlessly combines desire to go somewhere, with added incentive to go there sooner, by offering a discount.

The mobile experience for Foursquare on the iPhone is incredible, and highly functional, I rarely need to visit the website from my computer.  But upon visiting the site recently, I noticed an important, but not widely announced update.  Now when visiting a venue page on Foursquare, the side of the page will let me know which of my friends have previously checked-in to that venue.  This allows me to reach out to those friends directly, and ask for feedback on their experience, assuming they didn’t leave a tip.  I think it would be great if Yipit could take the Foursquare connect experience even further, and show me if any of my friends have been to a venue that is offering a deal as I browse the daily offerings.  For example, if I had never heard of The Meatball Shop, but saw that nine of my Foursquare friends had been there, and that it had a deal available, there is little doubt that I would purchase the deal immediately.  I think adding a more personal context to daily deal offerings, by leveraging the valuable user generated data/content of someone’s Foursquare social graph would help to make deals more relevant, and consequently increase conversion.

