---
title: Google’s Anti-Social Network
desc:  YouTube is Google's killer social network, it just doesn't seem to know it
---

I love Youtube. I use Youtube all the time to listen to music, listen to speeches, watch funny videos. What do I use Youtube for the most? My guilty pleasure is listening to covers of popular songs done by everyday people online. I have iTunes, Pandora, Spotify, and a host of other music services that I can use to listen to any song, but if I want to hear a cover of a song I love, Youtube is the best place to do that. The process of finding new artists who did covers of popular songs, along with their own original songs, I discovered an entire community of young people who were creating music, videos, and comedy sketches.  Many people in the community have forged friendship with other artists who live in different cities, often collaborating on songs/videos.  These musicians sell their music on iTunes, have tons of Facebook fans, thousands of Twitter followers, and in some cases millions of Youtube followers.  The best of these artists have been featured on television shows (Oprah, Ellen, etc), and tour all over the country.  They have built their entire fan base by creating, and distributing their content through Youtube.  Youtube is owned by Google, but is allowed to operate with a great deal of autonomy, and by all traditional metrics has proven to be a runaway success, and arguably one of Google’s best acquisitions.

As Google continues to struggle to find an identity in the social space, I can’t help but think of the community of millions of users who are engaging with musicians, comedians, actors, and other creators on Youtube everyday.  Fans of the musicians I subscribe to on Youtube encourage their fans to follow them on Twitter, to “Like” them on Facebook, and post links to purchase their music on iTunes.  One cannot help but think that Youtube/Google is missing an incredible opportunity to create an ecosystem where this community of creators, and consumers can interact, and carry out business all within the walls of Google.  Google could host a music store for these artists to sell their music, rather than have them use iTunes. Google could allow the users to create more dynamic profile pages, where users could easily display/share their favorite videos, and communicate directly with the artists they are fans of- instead this is all done via an artist’s Facebook page.  Google Checkout could even work with Youtube members to host a service where they can sell tickets to their shows.  None of these initiatives would be easy, or quick to implement, but I think Youtube is missing a tremendous opportunity to really engage an active community that is being forced to take its activity elsewhere.  