---
title: NYVC Speaker Series- Steve Schlafman
desc:  Conversation with a seed stage VC
---

Last night I attended an NYVC event at Dogpatch Labs to hear Steve Schlafman speak.  Steve is a Principal at Lerer Ventures, the most active seed stage venture capital fund in NYC.  Before joining Lerer, Steve was VP of Business Development at Stickybits, which pivoted into Turntable.fm.   He also was the Director of Venture Investments at The Kraft Group, which sounded like it was an incredible experience.  The entire talk was about an hour long, and Steve was generous enough to stick around afterwards to meet with people.  I tried to take some notes on points that I thought would be helpful, or interesting, but I definitely did not get capture every nugget of wisdom.

A really important point that Steve emphasized was that if you have a fundamentally broken product, throwing more money, or more features won’t fix it.  I think often entrepreneurs think raising more capital, or adding a handful of features will improve their product, but ultimately they need to rethink the foundation of what they are building.  A great tip which Steve suggested, when trying to figure out how well a startup is doing, is to twitter search the name of the service.  The level of activity can be a good indicator of how well they are doing.  Try it out, it works!

Steve spent sometime detailing his academic, and professional journey, which was excellent.  I won’t get into the entire history, since you can easily find all the information online, but I will say that Steve’s success is a result of his hustle, humble nature, and excellent ability to build relationships.  Steve also spent a lot of time speaking about Lerer Ventures, and what people who are looking to raise money from them should be aware of.  Lerer focuses on consumer internet companies, and also does invests a little bit in the B2B space (small/medium size businesses).  The team at Lerer likes to think of themselves not as investors, but rather as advisors, who serve as a support mechanism for the companies in their portfolio.  Like many other successful investors, they believe it is best to invest in people, who are capable of executing a vision.  Lerer does not choose to take board seats when it invests in seed rounds.  Product is also very important when evaluating an investment.  Product consists of brand, design, positioning, and who it is being built for.

So you want to raise money from Lerer?  Here is what they look for:

Action Not Analysis- There is no need for a fifty-page deck; you are better served by telling an effective story of why you are going to win.

Team & Culture- this is critically important for any successful company.  Off-sites, team building, and an environment that can get people excited are extremely important.  Founders need to prove that they have the ability to ability to hire, and partner with the best people.

Customer Obsession- Why is your company valuable? What is the psychology of your user? You should always be thinking about this, and have good answers.

A Good Story- Your story will extend into your brand, how you are able to hire, and every other aspect of your business. Crafting a good story will serve you well.

Hustle/Traction- show that you are doing everything possible to succeed, and it helps to have numbers that show that you are getting users, listening to them, and constantly iterating.

Composure & Confidence- pitching to a VC can be a high-pressure situation for many entrepreneurs who have a lot riding on a meeting- but it is important to remain calm, be effective, be efficient, and be concise.

Data Driven Approach- explain this is how we are thinking about the business.  You cannot control/improve what you don’t measure.  It is important to build this approach into your company’s culture; it creates a mechanism for accountability.  Companies that don’t hold individuals accountable don’t succeed.

Now that you know what Lerer is looking for, here is what the process of getting an investment from the firm looks like.  First it helps to have someone make a warm introduction.  After the introduction is made, the team will review your business plan, and schedule an in person meeting.  After the meeting, the team will conduct due diligence, then have a partner meeting, then conduct further due diligence.  If you have made it this far, the team will either have a decision for you, or engage in some negotiating.  After this process the deal will close, and then Lerer will begin their role in supporting the founder build her business.  Steve explained that Lerer Ventures likes to participate in strategy sessions with entrepreneurs, where they can dive into the product, understand the business, and determine how they can better add value to the founders. These strategy sessions are important because Lerer is “only as good as the support we provide to our entrepreneurs.”  Lerer often adds value by connecting service providers with its portfolio companies.  For example it had people from Facebook come and speak about how companies can be more effective using social. 

All the information on Lerer that I have shared above was really great to learn about, but the most interesting, and rewarding part of the event for me was Steve’s more personal insights.  Reflecting on his own journey, he explained that there is no one “right” path.  Luck matters, but you can improve your luck by realizing that networks matter.  In order to build an effective network you need to build relationships, and be part of the community, without needing anything in return.  Steve also explained how passion, and loving what you do are critical.  Meet new people, and engage the community, you never know how you can help someone, or how they might be able to help you.  Steve is also a firm believer in challenging the status quo, and taking risks, you can never get a return unless you take a risk.  When building anything, build for yourself, and be passionate about your work.  Steve recalled when he was at Microsoft people would be leaving at 5 PM, this wouldn’t be the case if they were passionate, and interested in the work they were doing.  “Best things that happen are things that often don’t.”  This statement from Steve really stuck with me.  You could probably sum up his career to this point with that single statement.  Not getting a job with the NFL, led him to the excellent opportunity to work with The Kraft group.  Not getting accepted to Y-Combinator, ultimately landed him at Lerer Ventures, where he attends YC Demo Day as an investor. He now has the ability to write checks to YC startups (think about how awesome that worked out).  Despite all his success, it was refreshing to see someone who was able to reflect on his path, and realize it was a result of his ability to build relationships, stay determined, mixed with a little bit of luck and timing.  If you ever get the opportunity to hear Steve speak, or have a meeting with him, don’t pass it up, I know I won’t.