---
title: Early Entrepreneurship Experiences
desc:  Childhood business fun
---

In the course of reading, and listening to the stories of many startup founders, often one common thread emerges, many were trying to build businesses, and make money at a very young age.  Whether they sold candy in school, had a lemonade stand, or did various jobs around the neighborhood, these individuals were figuring out how to make money, how to negotiate, how to market, and how to deal with customers very early on.  Upon hearing of many of these stories, I was prompted to reflect on my own childhood ventures.  Growing up I found many ways to try and increase my cash flow, beyond that of my twenty dollars a month allowance.

My first foray into having my own business, like many other first time entrepreneurs, was a lemonade stand near my house.  Another boy from the neighborhood, and myself set up a stand in front of the pool in our development.  But we soon found that besides limited foot traffic, many people were just driving past us.  To solve this problem we decided that we needed to hire another friend in the neighborhood to hold a sign at the entrance into the development, to let people know that just a little bit farther down the street, they would find delicious lemonade for sale.  We noticed this improved sales a little bit, but many people would be polite to the person with the sign, and then moments later drive past the actual stand.  We decided we needed to start making the sale earlier in the customer interaction.  My partner, and I decided that the person with the sign needed another partner in front of the development to help with sales.  People could prepay for their lemonade, and then using the awesome headset walkie-talkies my parents bought me from Toys R Us we at the actual stand would know who ordered what, and have it waiting for them by the time they pulled up.  In hindsight, it was a really brilliant business move (patting myself on the back).  We found that many of our potential customers were willing to support their local lemonade stand, but upon returning home from work, they were often focused on getting home for dinner, and seeing their family.  No problem, we had walkie-talkies, and mountain bikes, thus the lemonade delivery service was born.  For an additional fifty cents you could have your lemonade delivered right to your front door.  We realized that by figuring out why people said no, we had to come up with solutions to where they could only say yes, or risk hurting young businessmen, and businesswomen’s feelings.

My next business endeavor was also similar to many other young hustlers; I sold candy to my fellow classmates at school.  I told my mom I would get hungry throughout the school day, and often wanted snacks, and candy after lunch, but didn’t want to miss class to try and get food.  Fearing that I would be hungry, and not pay attention in class, my Mom obviously went to Costco, bought me boxes of candy, and snacks for me to keep in my locker.  Free inventory, and access to hundreds of students with spare change in their pocket, a real business opportunity was in front of me.  I sold Twix, mini-muffins, M&Ms, gum, and Twizzlers to my classmates.  I would keep a ready supply in my backpack, and used my locker as a storage unit.  Prices obviously increased during after school activities, when supply was limited due to the cafeteria being closed, and no access to vending machines.  I think my Mom eventually caught on when she found me asking for a replenishment of invesntory way too often.

For the majority of my childhood I was obsessed with collecting sports, and comic book cards.  Marvel, DC, NBA, and MLB were my areas of focus.  Looking back, I spent an absurd amount of money at the local comics store every week, buying packs of cards, and trying to find the best, and rarest cards.  I thought that I would have the best collection, and be able to sell my cards for millions of dollars one day.  At some point I think reality set in, and I realized there was still a way for me to make money from my collection of thousands of cards, even it was not millions of dollars like I had initially hoped.  I realized that like me, many of my friends also would spend money on buying multiple packs of cards every week.  This led me to start creating my own packs of cards, and selling them to my friends, and classmates.  Now, you might be asking why would they buy from me, rather than fresh packs from the comic store?  Easy, my packs had a guarantee that you would receive at least one good card.  Good card meant a hologram, an all-star player, a limited edition, a rookie card, pretty much anything you would be happy to find in a regular pack.  I would curate the packs on my own, and every once in awhile I would have a pack in the batch, that would have four, or five really great cards, to build buzz amongst my customers.  Selling my own packs let me unload a lot of the cards I didn’t want, while also making back a lot of the money I spent on all the cards in the first place.  I still managed to hold onto my favorite cards (Michael Jordan number 45 Flair), and every John Starks card probably ever made.  The 90’s Knicks were amazing.

I realize this is getting long, so I will save the story of my most advanced, and successful childhood business endeavor for my next post.  But I think by reflecting upon all these experiences, I realized that by engaging in all these activities that at the time I thought were fun, I was developing a foundation for many of the skills that I would need later in my professional adult life.  I think more schools, and parents should encourage kids to pursue small entrepreneurial ideas when they are young.  Innovation, and hustle can happen at any age, young or old.

