---
title: Foursquare- More Than a Game
desc:  Moving beyond just the check-in
---

Foursquare has been having an incredible August.  The relatively small team of fewer than a hundred employees has been continuously been pushing changes, and releasing new products to enhance the user experience on the platform.  In the month of August, Foursquare has announced self-serve pages for brands/organizations, updated apps for Blackberry, Android (2x), and iPhone, Lists, and Events. It is remarkable, and inspiring to see a company continuing to push the envelope, and innovating at such a rapid pace.  

When I first started using your Foursquare several years ago I simply did so because of what I hoped the platform would become.  When I first signed up for Foursquare I had maybe three or four friends who used the service, I also was not earning any mayorships anytime soon. Despite not getting much value from checking in to places at first, I continued to pull out my phone and check in,  in the process I would often explain to friends who were with me how magical the Foursquare platform could be if they along with others joined, and if the company continued to innovate and take advantage of the great opportunities that lay ahead of them.  Foursquare is definitely delivering in a big way.  

Why do I continue to checkin? I now am having a new close friend join the service almost weekly, it is great to be able to pull up the app and see where all my friends are on a Saturday night, I have changed plans at the last minute based on what I have seen on Foursquare.  With features like Explore, and Lists the Foursquare app serves as my city guide, whether I am in New York, or visiting a friend anywhere in the country.  I follow a bunch of other users’ lists on Foursquare, and have a pretty comprehensive to-do list of my own.  Ultimately I know Foursquare will incorporate the ability for automatic notifications of when my friends are nearby, or I am near one of the unchecked places on any of my lists.  That capability would just reinforce the need for users to maintain great lists, and maintain an accurate list of friends that they would like to randomly be able to run into.

In terms of creating useful, and innovative partnerships, Foursquare’s business development team it appears has been just as busy as the product team.  The American Express, Starwood Hotels, and daily deal partnerships just make sense, and Foursquare has done an incredible job of creating a tremendous amount of value for it’s users. August was an incredible month for Foursquare users, I look forward to what is coming next…but at this pace I don’t think I will be waiting long.