---
title: Daily Deals Brought to You by Airbnb?
desc:  A new distribution channel for the discounted deals industry
---

The other night a conversation on Twitter caught my eye.  [@daveambrose](twitter.com/daveambrose) wrote how he noticed that “daily deals” was in the copy of the Airbnb iPhone marketing site.  Airbnb quickly responded and explained that it was an experimental feature that was used during launch, and helped to create buzz, but that the company had discontinued it for the time being for a myriad of reasons.  The simple exchange of tweets got me thinking about how there are now so many daily deal sites, and for any single company to sell deals it needs to get increasingly creative, and innovative with how it distributes its offerings.  If you think about it- daily deals being offered to you when you book a stay in a different city through Airbnb is an excellent opportunity for all parties involved.  When I go to a new city it is safe to assume that I do not subscribe to the daily deal offerings of that city, but while I am booking a room in a new city, it would only make sense that in many instances I would want suggestions/good deals on food, drinks, and entertainment.  If I am going to a new city I will already be spending money on transportation, and then on accommodations (in this case via Airbnb), so in many cases you could assume I would be more open to purchasing a deal that might save me money during my visit.  It would be an easy undertaking for Airbnb to target the ads by location, since they know where I am staying, and with the new concierge service the site could even make increasingly relevant, and helpful suggestions.

Airbnb has been innovating, improving, and implementing changes constantly, I would not be surprised if they are not already working on the logistics of working with daily deal companies to make offering to users who are booking rooms through the site.  This entire discussion has made me think in what other ways could daily deal companies get creative in distribution, to get their offerings in front of more people.  I think we are going to continue to see a lot of creative partnerships in this space, it should be interesting to watch.