---
title: One Social Graph to Rule Them All?
desc:  Services and people are dynamic, one graph is unrealistic
---

We are currently in the midst of a bitter battle on the internet- one for our identity, and the winner hopes to control our online social graph.  I think this is a very shortsighted, and incomplete way to view what we are seeing happening in the social networking space right now. Facebook introduced it’s social graph several years back, and has done a great job of incorporating many services around the web to plug into it’s social graph, and Facebook wants users to continue to build out, and strengthen the graph by feeding in data points of their activities, interests, location, relationships, etc.  Google has recently decided to try and be the online destination for a user’s social graph with the introduction of Google +.  Twitter and Tumblr also have their own social graphs based on a one way following model.  Foursquare allows users to build a more intimate social graph based on location of your friends.

If you think about how these different services are used differently by each user, it becomes even more clear that we are not going to have just one social graph, rather I believe we will continue to have many services come up, that allow us to create new, and different social graphs based on how we choose to incorporate the service into our lives.  

To illustrate my point more clearly, I am going to share how I personally view/use each service I mentioned above:  

Facebook is a place where I primarily keep in touch with friends by looking at/posting on walls, but mostly just looking at friends’ pictures, and occasionally posting some of my own via FB Mobile. For the most part I do not care what my friends are buying, or what they think are funny Youtube videos, rather I see Facebook as a tool to keep in touch with people that I cannot speak on a daily basis, a source of entertainment provided by viewing their pictures, and a great way for my relatives in India to easily have a window into my life in NY.

Google is what I use for search, e-mail, docs, and chatting with my closest friends. I had high hopes for Google + when it was released, but I have yet to see any value in the service. I don’t have any complicated reason for not liking it, the design is great, it puts a new spin on privacy, but the simple truth is that NONE of my friends are using it. I think it is important that competitors for Facebook emerge in order to spur innovation, but I think if Google + wants to make serious traction in the social space it needs to realize it is not going to beat Facebook at social by trying to be a better Facebook, rather Google needs to re-imagine the online social experience.

Tumblr is what I use to create, and share long form content on the web.  I love how easy it is to create a post- whether it be text, a link, a photo, or a video.  I also follow various other tumblr users blogs, I think tumblr serves as an extremely powerful discovery engine.  The ease at which people can reblog content, and like posts allows me to constantly discover new people to follow that I normally would never come across online through any of my other social graphs.

Twitter is the service I use the most throughout the course of my day. I follow a few of my close friends, athletes, comedians, actors, brands, companies, entrepreneurs, investors, and various other interesting people I have come across through someone I follow retweeting an interesting tweet. I post a lot of things on Twitter that I would not want to post on Facebook, and vice versa.  I don’t think my Twitter followers want to see pictures of me at a college friend’s wedding, and I don’t think my Facebook friends want to hear about the newest round of funding for a hot NY startup. I enjoy having distinct social graphs for this very reason.

Foursquare is my most intimate social graph, I don’t have everyone of my Facebook friends who uses the service as one of my Foursquare friends, this space is reserved for my close friends that I want to interact with in person on a regular basis.  I rarely post my checkins to Twitter, rather I just allow the people I want to be able to see where I am see where I have checked in through the Foursquare app.  I am a huge supporter of Foursquare, and have convinced several of my friends to join the service, but I also think the magic and seredipity of the Foursquare experience is best preserved by keeping some control on who you allow to be a Foursquare friend.

I am sure there are plenty of people who use all these services but use them differently from me.  I am not suggesting that everyone has to use these services the same way I do, rather the best part is we can use these services however we best see fit for ourselves. I don’t think there will ever be one social graph to rule them all, life is not that simple.