---
title: All Quiet On The Google+ Front
desc:  Google needs to rethink social
---

I have given Google+ a serious chance, and ample time to show me something, but I am left still waiting.  Google’s latest foray into social has been better than its previous attempts (Buzz & Wave) but one would be wrong to call it a success at this point.  The simple truth is that for me, and millions of other users, our Google+ feeds sit quiet, and untouched, despite the engagement, and user signup numbers that the Google execs share every opportunity they get.  Ultimately I don’t think Google+ has failed thus far due to a lack of features, poor design, or a handful of other reasons that many services don’t take off, I think the explanation is much more basic.  What problem is Google+ solving, what need is it fulfilling for its users? 

In an older post I explained how people use different services for different purposes, it will be difficult for Google to overcome the strong network effects that are supporting these burgeoning services.  Then there is the obvious $100 billion elephant in the room, Facebook.  Why do we use Facebook? Why do people spend so much time on the service, and visit the site multiple times a day? Mark Zuckerberg explains it best, when he says people want to be where their friends are on the web.  My friends have Google+ accounts as a result of us all using Gmail for our personal email addresses, but none of us actually use Google+. No posts, no pictures uploaded, no commenting, nothing. Why is it so quiet on everyone’s Google+ feed? Simple, everything we would need Google+ for, we are already doing on Facebook, and have been doing so since 2004.  I wrote about the power of the networks effects, and created history of Facebook in a previous post, it is a powerful force that Google is going up against.  

When Google+ first came onto the scene, many people thought it posed more of a direct threat to Twitter, rather than to Facebook, but I disagree with that notion as well.  Twitter’s simplicity, and limit of posts to 140 characters, has made the service extremely enjoyable for me, and millions of users.  Twitter is where I share the most content, discover stuff I never was able to before, and engage with people I don’t know on a personal level that isn’t possible on any other service.  Twitter works because people use the service, and engage with one another in effective ways, Google has been unable to recreate a similar environment.  When you enter a space late, like Google has in social, it is not enough to mimic existing services, rather you have to be innovative, and create something different, that your potential users will find valuable.  In an environment where countless apps, and web services are being launched daily, there is a battle for users’ attention.  I share my location using Foursquare, interact with friends on Facebook, discover interesting content and news from Twitter, and share my brilliantly crafted photos on Instagram.  Any remaining online time is devoted to blogging on Tumblr, and dealing with the daily battle that is email.  Google+ frankly has no room in my digital life right now, nor has it been able to mount a serious battle for it. 

Google is an incredible company that is filled with brilliant minds that should be able to figure out social, and create a product that will capture the hearts, and minds of users all over the globe.  I believe Google needs to challenge themselves to not try and recreate what already exists, but rather to skate to where the puck is going, and produce the next big thing in social.  Some people might be ready to move on from Facebook, or find the 140-character limit of Twitter too limiting, but they want to move somewhere that others will be listening. 