---
title: NYU Entrepreneurs Speaker Series- Joshua Kushner
desc:  Entrepreneur, investor shares his business journey
---

NYU runs a program called the Entrepreneurs Speaker Series, and I had the pleasure of attending last night’s event, which featured Joshua Kushner.  Josh is the founder of Vostu, an online gaming startup based out of Brazil.  He founded the company while still attending school at Harvard, where he received his undergrad, and MBA degrees.  More recently Josh started his own investment fund called Thrive Capital, which initially raised a $100 million fund.

Vostu has more than five hundred employees, Josh explained that 12% of Brazil plays games, and the site has fifty million registered users.  One might wonder how he manages to stay actively involved in Vostu, and invest successfully at Thrive Capital.  Josh told us during the early days of Vostu he focused on everything, but overtime he felt it was important that everyone on the team have more clearly defined roles.  He is no longer actively involved on the product side of the business, rather he focuses his energy on strategy, and business, thinking about how, when, and with who they should be doing things.  In order to effectively focus his attention on certain aspects of the business, and be comfortable delegating the product decisions to other members of the team, Josh emphasized the importance of hiring people smarter than you.  You also want to make sure to hire people who are there when things get bad.  Being an investor, and an entrepreneur from Josh’s perspective has made him better in both roles.  He is able to relate better, and provide a first hand perspective to founders in his portfolio company, and he is also able to gauge which teams can be successful when deciding what companies to invest in.  His experience from one role provides knowledge he can draw on in his other role.  Josh thinks of himself as an internet investor, not a VC, because he focuses on a single asset class.

Like many successful investors, and entrepreneurs, Josh was hustling from a young age. His mother was in the audience, and shared a hilarious story from when Josh was young. When he was away at sleep away camp he would always write her to send more cookies, thinking he was enjoying them, his mother of course continued to send more, and more cookies.  It was only when she went to visit Josh for parent’s weekend, that another camper came up to her and explained how he loved her cookies, but wished they were less expensive.  Clearly Josh’s first business model was flawless, free labor, free merchandise, all profit…at least until his mother found out.  Before the success of Vostu, Josh had a failed business called Unithrive.  Unithrive’s objective was to reduce the debt load for college students, by putting a face to where alumni donations were going.  They met a lot of resistance from the University, which prevented the business from ever getting off the ground.  I still think it is a great idea, that someone should try again, maybe find a creative way to work around the universities?

Joshua Kushner is a young guy relative to most other investors in the industry, but he demonstrates a true confidence in where he thinks technology is headed in the future.  If I were raising money for a startup, I think having an investor who has also been a successful entrepreneur would be a valuable asset, and Josh would be a great option.  I urge everyone to try and attend an NYU Entrepreneurs Speaker Series event in the future.
