---
title: Early Entrepreneurship Experiences Part 2
desc:  Snow day shoveling
---

I wanted to share one last childhood entrepreneurship experience, to conclude my post from yesterday.  Growing up in Long Island, the winter always meant one thing to me- snow! Specifically, it presented the opportunity to make money by shoveling snow.  My friend, and I would go to the neighborhood next to our own, and ring doorbells of people we did not know, and offer to shovel their driveway, and walkway for 30-90 dollars depending on the size of their property, and the amount of snow.  On a good day we might have had the energy to do three, or maybe four driveways.  We realized year after year, that the majority of our time was wasted going door to door, trying to find people who were willing to let us shovel their driveway for money.  We failed to remember who had hired us the previous winter, and always started fresh by going door to door.  One winter, we realized that in order to effectively use our time, and maximize our effort, that we should create a customer database, and provide contact information to build a relationship with our customers.  Using my computer, and some business card creation software, I put my home phone number, an email address, and our names on a card that we could distribute to all the houses we visited.  We told our customers whenever it snowed, all they had to do was get in touch with us, and we would make sure to come by their homes first.  We also began to keep track of the houses we worked on, and the names of the homeowners, and how much we charged them through an excel spreadsheet (basic CRM pre-Salesforce).  If we did not hear from them when it snowed, we would visit their houses, address them by their names to indicate that we remembered them, and hope to have the opportunity to shovel their driveways.  After two years of implementing this new approach, my friend and I had so many repeat customers, that we were able to enlist some of our other friends to service our customer base. We took a cut of the payment for giving them the lead.  We realized that once we had built, and maintained a customer base, we could focus all our time on clearing more driveways, and making more money, it was the best use of our time. I think those hours spent in the cold working to clear a driveway covered in several feet of wet, and heavy snow, taught me the importance of getting the job done, and taking pride in my work.  It would have been easy to do a bad job, and still get paid, but then we knew we would never have any homeowner as a repeat customer, and they might even tell their neighbors about our poor level of service, making it difficult to find new business.  For many kids snow days meant sledding, building snowmen, drink hot chocolate, and a day off from school.  To me, and my neighborhood friends it meant a day of hard work that ended with pockets full of cash…the day off from school was great too!