---
title: Collaborative Consumption Mash Up- Airbnb & Car Sharing
desc:  The sharing economy will reshape society
---

My friends and I are planning a visit to Atlanta in the fall, and I thought it would be a great opportunity to try out Airbnb for the first time. As I was browsing potential apartments we could rent for the weekend, I came across an apartment listing that also was offering the ability to rent the host’s car for an extra fee.  This seemed like a great idea, and I was actually surprised that more hosts around the word weren’t doing this.  In NYC & SF it is fairly easy to get around without your own car, and often the more efficient method of transportation.  In a city like Atlanta, having a car is a necessity; the public transportation system is poorly planned, shockingly inefficient, and overall terrible.  It only makes sense that many people visiting a city, might like to have access to a car, especially if it is less expensive than a rental, and will already be located where they are staying.

I imagine that Airbnb is very focused on building their burgeoning rental business for interesting, and unique spaces all over the world, but with the rise of several car-sharing services such as Getaround, and RelayRides, I think a partnership between Airbnb and car-sharing services would be a natural fit.  The car sharing services already focus on all the legal, and insurance issues associated with a person renting their car out to paying customers, taking it one step further to get the cars in front of people who would otherwise be renting them from the big rental companies makes sense.  One could assume that the people who are willing to rent out a room, or their entire home to people online, would also be more open to the idea of renting out their car to these same people.  Airbnb could even have the ability to show what car sharing vehicles are available near different apartments being offered for rent on the site, and take a referral fee if someone books it.

I have not finalized which apartment my friends, and I are going to stay in when we visit Atlanta, but the one that also has the option of renting a car has been bookmarked.  In this new age where we are all connected, and communicate easier than ever before, I imagine collaborative consumption will continue to become a more normal part of our everyday lives.   