---
title: Twitter- where you can have whatever you like
desc:  A rich community awaits anyone willing to search for it
---

With my passion for web companies, I often find myself either defending my use of a certain service, or trying to inspire a friend to use it.  Similar to how I am with Foursquare, I find myself trying to convey the value to everyone around me of being active on Twitter. To clarify, by being active I do not mean that person necessarily has to tweet, rather they can simply follow people that they find interesting.  With that point right there I think lies on of the undersold strengths of Twitter- you do not have to tweet, in order to garner a tremendous amount of value from the service.

I am very active on Twitter, I post thoughts, and retweet interesting content, and engage with people I follow.  My older brother is also a big Twitter user, except he has probably only tweeted a handful of times (he was on Twitter before I was) but he still extracts as much value as I do from being a Twitter user.  When I explain to my friends how I constantly am exposed to incredible content and people, that I don’t know if I would have otherwise been able to discover without Twitter, many of them reply well it is because you are into tech.  I simply smile, because they have now opened the door for me to explain how Twitter is full of experts in every field, whether it be sports, media, medicine, politics, finance, and even tech.  Twitter has closed the gap between people more than any other service before it has.  Where else on the web could someone directly contact LeBron James, Paulo Coehlo, and Dennis Crowley by simply using one service?  When you think about it, Twitter is nothing short of remarkable.  I encourage everyone to tweet as often, or as little as they like.  But you should get on Twitter, find a small group of people who you think you would be interested in following, and let the rest just happen from there. No matter what your passion is, you can have whatever you like.