---
title: Keeping It Real- SideTour Style
desc:  A marketplace for authentic experiences
---

I have always been a firm believer in focusing on spending money on experiences that will lead to creating lifelong memories, rather than fleeting material pleasures.   This mindset, and approach to life made me an instant fan of the New York based startup SideTour.  SideTour is a TechStars NYC alum founded by Vipin Goyal, Mark Webster, and Minesh Mistry. The site provides a marketplace for people to share authentic, and local experiences with one another.  SideTour encourages people to escape the routine way of experiencing the world around them, and to engage with all the interesting, and unique people that they share the world with.  The company is driven by the belief that everyone person has a different perspective, and various passions, which can be leveraged to create a handcrafted experience for others to enjoy.

If you are like me, you are probably sick of being inundated everyday with offers for restaurants, tanning, and boat cruises around NYC.  Leave boring behind, expand your horizons, and begin to explore SideTour, you will likely discover a new interest.  An intimate concert from a concert pianist, a tour of a unique NYC neighborhood from a lifetime resident, and racing down a luge with an actual Olympic silver medalist, are just a small sampling of the experiences offered to you on SideTour.  The interesting experiences offered by SideTour are only one part of what makes the company so fascinating to me.  I love the idea that SideTour is essentially creating a platform for sharing unique experiences, and a marketplace for anyone with a passion, or skill to become a host.  I might not be an incredible chef, or an Olympic athlete, but I could probably host a pretty interesting walking tour of fried food in NYC.  The point is that everyone has something unique to offer, and now SideTour has created the perfect platform for people to share their unique knowledge, and talents, with people who are interested in experiencing authentic interactions, with interested people. 

SideTour is a very young company, and I think it is just beginning to scratch the surface on the tremendous opportunity in front of it.  Imagine you are traveling abroad to Japan, you could read travel blogs, and visit the sites that millions of other tourists have visited for years.  But with SideTour you could experience things that are off the beaten path, and will allow you to create truly special memories.  Maybe a tour of the hip-hop inspired fashion/sneaker stores in Harajuku from a designer of A Bathing Ape. An opportunity to witness the intense morning tuna auction at the Tsukiji fish market with a local sushi restaurant supplier. The possibilities are endless.  I look forward to signing up for some SideTours in the very near future, and I might even have to host one of my own.  I’m focused on experiencing new things, meeting interesting people, and possibly going down an ice luge.  Stay tuned.