---
title: Perfecting Pocket
desc:  How to go from good to great
---

I love Pocket.  It has changed a lot of my daily routine.  In the past, when I saw an article I wanted to read later on Twitter, I used to email the tweet to myself, this made my inbox a mess.  When browsing the web, or going through the my Twitter feed on my computer, if there was an article I wanted to read later, I would either bookmark it, or keep an absurd amount of tabs open, and get to them when I could…with Google chrome this would often crash my browser, or bring my computer to a painfully slow crawl.  Pocket changed everything instantly.  I now add everything to Pocket, I can do this directly from my browser, or the Twitter app on my iPhone.  I can also download the articles and read them offline on my phone, this has made subway rides incredibly more productive.  Pocket has also focused my online reading routine.  If I want to take a break from doing work, I can tell myself I will read four articles on Pocket, and be done.  When I was emailing links to myself, I was in a constant battle to clear out the inbox, often distracting myself for long periods of time.  Ok, so clearly I am a fan of Pocket, but I still think it could get a lot better.  Here are three of my wishes for the product.

Pocket Paper: I consume a ton of online content- articles, videos, blog posts, quotes, pictures, etc. A lot of the content I discover through Twitter, then save to pocket, consume it, and then often want to share it with my close friends.  I email my close friends multiple times throughout the day with interesting stuff I discover on the web, and many friends email me things that they find.  There has to be a better way, and I think Pocket is in the unique position to improve on sharing content.  What if each user could create a Pocket Paper, a page where they can select content from their own Pocket queue, that will then be available for any of their friends to visit, and see the content that you have reccomended.  When selecting a specific article to put on your Pocket page, you could even tag certain people whom you think would have a particular interest in that piece of content, guaranteeing that they receive a notification to visit your page.  I think Pocket Paper would not only give people a reason to save more stuff to Pocket, but also would help them attract new users, by having their already existing user base invite their friends to engage with content on Pocket.  This would also open the door to allowing friends to converse about pieces of content on someone’s Pocket paper.  Facebook is not really the space to have those conversations, and Twitter still struggles with conversations, especially among multiple people.  I think Pocket Paper would be awesome!

Social Sharing: This one seems more obvious, and I’m sure the team will soon introduce this to the product, but some social sharing buttons on Pocket would be a huge help.  Often after reading an article I might feel compelled to share it to Twitter or Facebook, let me do that with a click of a button, with the ability to add a comment if I want to.  Once again, sharing through Pocket will increase awareness of the product, and hopefully bring new users to the service.

Popular Pockets: Create a dashboard where you can see what other users have “Pocketed.”  This can be private, by not identifying specific users, but be based on the aggregate user base. Have trending articles, and you could even organize them by areas of interest: sports, technology, entertainment, etc.  This would be a great discovery tool for people who want new ways to find content beyond their social graphs.

I love Pocket, and I look forward to seeing how the product will continue to evolve in the future.

