---
title: The Internet- The Rapid Agent of Change
desc:  The world is more open, connected, and unforgiving
---

Over the past few years with the rise of online communities we have witnessed drastic changes in the way that people organize, and engage with one another on the internet.  Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and YouTube in my opinion have had the biggest impact on working to connect people all over the globe, at a scale that was impossible before.  The two most notable examples of internet activism fueled by a passionate community that was forged relatively quickly are The Arab Spring, and the Occupy Wall Street Movement.  By using Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and YouTube, groups were able to organize, coordinate, communicate, and distribute their message at a rapid mate, on a massive scale.  Before these services, this level of collaboration across vast distances, among hundreds of thousands of people, often with authoritative governments watching would have only been a dream.

Corporations have also witnessed firsthand the power of mobilized communities on the web.  Upon instituting absurd fees for their customers, Bank of America and Verizon witnessed a rapid, and powerful backlash from angry customers on Twitter.  The shear volume of angry customers, publicly voicing their anger against the fees forced both companies to step back, and remove them.  Would this have been possible five years ago? I don’t think so.  If a consumer has a bad experience with any company, they now have a voice, and a platform to broadcast that they are unhappy.  The smart companies are the ones that realize it is best to reach out to their customers, and make things right ASAP.  An angry consumer, with a legitimate gripe, who now has a platform to voice her dissatisfaction, can be extremely damaging to a corporate brand. 

Political issues have been a hot button issue for online communities, and have sparked passion, and outrage from constituents in a very public way, on a massive scale.  Using Twitter, and Facebook individuals were able to battle, and ultimately defeat the poorly thought out SOPA/PIPA legislation. Defenders of our internet freedoms launched initiatives to rally support, increase awareness, and encourage people to reach out to their political representatives.  The quick, and powerful response from constituents forced the government to reconsider their approach to this legislation.  Before the social web existed, it is very possible that SOPA/PIPA would have passed, meeting little resistance from people who were unable to effectively have their voices heard, or were simply unaware of what was going on.  The web has empowered people to learn about issues they might have never been exposed to previously, and then it even provides them with a platform to act on their newfound knowledge.   

The power of the social web works both ways, politicians, and corporations should embrace services like Facebook, Twitter, and many others to engage with their constituents, and customers.  The web has provided a medium by which we can all have more personal access to one another, easier than was ever possible before.  If we are able to freely share information, ideas, grievances, and hopes, then innovation, and change should be able to occur at a pace, and scale that was only a distant dream several years ago.