---
title: Quora- The World’s Most Comprehensive Storybook?
desc:  Extracting & organizing the world's unstructured information
---

Story telling has been a fundamental part of civilizations since the beginning of time.  People used to tell stories, and record the history of their communities by illustrating on the walls of caves.  Many communities also would pass down stories from generation to generation, in order to ensure that their history, and past would continue to live on in the future.  As reading, and writing became common, people wrote in diaries, we saw the advent of publications, books, etc.  With these new mediums often the voice of the individual, and the perspective of the everyday man was lost in the noise created by large publications.  In the last several years with the rise of blogging, Twitter, and Facebook- the individual has become empowered to publish her own stories, opinions, and have them potentially seen by millions.  It is clear that these platforms are a tremendous step towards providing everyone with a microphone, but in a world that has become increasingly noisy, and fragmented, finding the stories we want to hear most has become increasingly difficult.  Enter Quora, a service that has the potential to be the best organized, searchable, and easy to publish platform, for anyone, and everyone who has a story to tell, or information to contribute on topics that people find interesting. 

We live in an incredibly connected world that is composed of an eclectic set of people.  There has never been a time in our history where it has been easier to connect with one another, and share our thoughts, opinions, and experiences on such a large scale.  It is still hard to discover new blogs on specific topics on the web, effective Twitter search still seems like a distant dream. There is an overwhelming amount of interesting content on the web, but discovering it has become increasingly difficult.  I think Quora has the unique opportunity to provide the platform for user generated information to be collected, and made easily searchable for people in the future.  For example, twenty years from now, a child who wants to learn about 9/11 beyond the information offered in her textbook, might find it even more informative, and powerful to read first hand accounts by people who actually lived through the event.  They could try and search for individual blogs, but they might be better served visiting Quora.  A platform like Quora has provided a place on the web where everyone can go to ask, and answer questions.  Not everybody is an expert in a certain field, but that doesn’t mean that they don’t possess a unique insight into a specific life experience, or the privilege of being a first hand observer to a historical event.  Everyone now has the ability to tell stories unique to their own lives, which can become part of the larger narrative of the human history.  The web has allowed everyone to have a voice, Quora is a powerful network that can allow everyone to be heard.