---
title: Back To The Future, Err…Past
desc:  Looking back at all we create in our digital lives
---

Now what I am about to tell you might sound impossible at first, but please bear with me.  Every morning when I wake up, from the comfort of my own bed, I enter a time machine, and travel back exactly 365 days back into the past. I get to relive my day one year ago through pictures, tweets, and status updates.  Ok, don’t get too excited it is not an actual time machine, but it is the closest thing we have to one, it is Timehop.  Timehop was originally born as 4SquareAnd7YearsAgo at Foursquare hackathon.  Co-Founders Jonathan Wegener and Benny Wong created Timehop as part of the TechStars NYC winter class.  Timehop delivers a daily email that shows the user her tweets, Facebook activity, and Foursquare check-ins from a year ago. 

In a digital world, where we often create content to capture a moment, to share it with various social networks, we rarely go back to reengage, and reconnect with this content.  Timehop lets you briefly travel back in time, one year into the past every morning.  Through old tweets, Facebook activity, and Instagram images we are able to revisit the past, and evaluate how our lives have evolved, and changed in a relatively short amount of time.  We can be reminded of triumphant moments, or hard times that are now hopefully just a memory.  Upon visiting the past, we can see what used to be important to us, and maybe how we lost sight of what matters in the present, perhaps offering a chance to refocus, and reprioritize.  Being a Timehop user, you now know everything you put into the digital world; you will be taken back to a year into the future.  Knowing about this inevitable trip back in time might impact your sharing habits.  I know I have become much better about checking in on Foursquare, because I like to be reminded of where I have been, and whom I have been with.  The more I engage with various services, the more I will get out my Timehop trips in the future.

I have always been a firm believer that in order to ever truly appreciate the present, and move forward towards the future, it is important to maintain a healthy perspective informed by what one has been through in the past.  Nothing better than a daily reminder of where I was, what I was thinking, and whom I was with a year ago to help me keep everything in perspective.  Until someone is able to come up with an actual time machine, I am happy to travel back in time from the comfort of my bed every morning thanks to Timehop.