---
title: The Future of TV- Interactive Viewing Experience
desc:  TV can be more than a laid back experience
---

I wish my TV could do more. The ever increasing connection between my computer, and mobile devices, has left my TV on the outside looking in, and I have noticed.  From the perspective of a TV watcher (user), an advertiser, and a content creator all the parties involved should hope for, and push towards a more innovative future for our TV.  I wish the television experience was more interactive, and that I could do more with the content that I am watching.  For example, it would be excellent if while watching an episode of Diners, Drive-Ins, and Dives that I could save locations to my Foursquare to-do list. The same idea in terms of seeing an advertisement for any location, if I am able to save the information to an app like Foursquare which I use daily, I am much more likely to visit that business. Imagine the same ability to bookmark items that you see advertisements for, by adding them to Pinterest, Fancy, Svpply, Amazon Wishlist, etc. Think about the ability to “Like” a show, or purchase the song playing in the background directly from iTunes on your TV.  The amount transactional opportunities for merchants would increase dramatically if viewers were able to interact more with the content that they are already viewing.  The amount of data, and the increased strength of the feedback loop for merchants/advertisers would be incredible.  Imagine if I “Liked” The Wire while I watched an episode on HBO, and then an advertisement to download Breaking Bad, The Shield, or Sons of Anarchy popped up, a network could even offer me a free taste of an episode from each series…that would be a tactic very in line with some of the characters from The Wire.  By allowing a viewer to indicate that she is a fan of specific show, you have captured some data on her interests, and created the opportunity to complete a new purchase transaction.  The future lies in companies’ ability to garner data, and then make sense of it.  Americans spend hours every week in front of the television, and we are currently squandering a tremendous opportunity to capture valuable data, and capitalize on countless sales opportunities.  I could offer countless examples of how to improve the experience, just think about everything you turn to your computer, or mobile device for while you watch TV. Going to IMDB to look up an actress, Shazaming a song to purchase on iTunes, adding a restaurant to Foursquare, going to Amazon to check the price/purchase an item you just saw on a show, or advertisement, the possibilities are seemingly endless.

My next post will explore how to personalize the TV experience for viewers.