---
title: Keep Your Fans Forever? Never Say Never
desc:  Social media allows for constant and direct artist-fan communication
---

Throughout history we have seen the rise, fall, and eventual fading away of pop-stars from the limelight.  It has almost always just been accepted, that the majority of acts targeted at young fan bases, will eventually lose their appeal when their young fan bases grow up, and outgrow their extreme fanaticism.  Like many accepted norms from the past, I think technology is helping to change this once certainty; we are in the midst of an important, and fundamental change in the artist-fan relationship.  Up until recently you were able to keep up with an artist only through magazines, TV appearances, catching them on tour, and a website.  Most of these opportunities to see your favorite artist did not happen frequently, and often did not allow for the opportunity of any meaningful interaction.  It was easy for an artist to lose a significant share of his fan base during a long gap between tours, or a new album release.  Out of sight, out of mind is a powerful force that allowed many artists to fall out of favor with their once enamored fans.  In recent years with the rise of social networking services like Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Instagram, and Foursquare artists have been provided with powerful platforms that allow them to remain in constant contact with their fans, and engage them on a level that was never possible before.  This relatively new shift, got me thinking about the effects this could have on the fan-artist relationship, and if it is now possible for artists to maintain their fan-bases for the entirety of their careers.

The artist that got me thinking about the shift in how stars can constantly engage, and communicate with their fans was Justin Bieber.  I am not ashamed that I have been following Justin Bieber’s meteoric rise to mega superstar status since the early days.  Now this is not because I have a special place in my heart for teen pop acts, rather it just happened that the brains behind the Justin Bieber movement was an Emory classmate of mine, Scott “Scooter” Braun.  Scooter discovered Bieber on YouTube, and then used social media networks to build a following for Bieber through a grassroots movement, while all the major record labels passed on him.  You can learn about the incredible story in Bieber’s movie Never Say Never.  For years, Justin Bieber has been a force on Twitter, often tied to one or more trending topics.  Many young Beliebers fans use Facebook and Twitter to coordinate meet-ups, create fan clubs, and coordinate buyouts of Justin’s albums at local music retailers.  If you dive a little deeper, and check out some of the tweets from Justin Bieber, and his fans, it tells a much more interesting story.  Everyday, Justin takes the time to reply to some of his fans on Twitter, and retweets several.  If you then visit the profile of a fan that he has replied to, or retweeted, you will see that the Belieber army begins to tweet at the lucky fan, congratulating her, and telling her how lucky they is.  Millions of fans tweet everyday, simply hoping that one day Justin Bieber will notice.  Bieber’s team has also used Twitter effectively to build buzz for his movie, album, and appearances.  The team has used platforms to engage fans, and make them feel that they are an integral part of the process at every stage.  Millions of fans don’t view Justin Bieber as just another pop star, but rather as their superstar, one that they have followed everyday since his journey began from singing cover songs on YouTube.  Uploading videos to YouTube, sharing where he is on Foursquare, uploading pictures to Instagram, communicating directly with fans on Twitter, and broadcasting news on Facebook, allows Bieber, and any other artists to keep in constant contact with their fans, making them feel like they are heavily invested in their careers.

We will likely not know the real impact of this new level of access that fans now have to their favorite artists for several years.  I believe that we are going to see many artists extend their careers, and increase their time in the spotlight, as a result of being effective communicators, and sharers with their fan base.  Fans, who feel like they are part of a movement, and interact with a person everyday, have to be less likely to lose interest, and move onto the next hot thing.  I think brands can take some notes from how artists like Bieber are using different platforms to engage their fans, and include them in the process, rather than simply promoting a product/person to them.  Social networks have created an environment where interaction, and engagement is paramount, and everyone feels like they have a voice, and a part in the process.  In the past it would have been unfathomable to think that a child pop star could maintain, and even grow his fan base as he got older (except Michael Jackson), but now I think we need to realize that it could very well become the new normal.