---
title: Conquering Local
desc:  A lot of companies are hoping to crack local online
---

Local, local, and local…we hear about it everyday. Everybody is trying to figure out how to tackle the local market, and usher small businesses onto the web.  Groupon, Yelp, LivingSocial amongst countless other technology companies are trying to figure out how to effectively monetize the local market.  As financial details have come out about many of these companies, it is apparent that cracking local is an extremely difficult, and incredibly expensive endeavor.  The shear number of local businesses has forced companies to hire extremely large sales forces, which have to be paid.  No one has been able to find a scalable method to garner the attention of local businesses that does not force them to hemorrhage a tremendous amount of cash.  I don’t know if any company will be able to efficiently work with the local market by hiring a large sales force, and hoping to reach each business owner individually.  As we see an increasing number of companies enter this space, but struggle to efficiently scale, it has become clear to me that the only way to succeed in this market might be to build a platform that will be attractive to merchants.  An attractive platform would be one that presents an opportunity for merchants to interact directly with their customers. A platform, which allows merchants to offer deals to customers when they think it would be best, and to tailor each deal specific to the needs, and capabilities of their own unique business.  It is impossible for a sales person who is calling hundreds of local business owners to truly understand the nuances, and important details of running each specific business.  I think Foursquare is the company that is in the best position right now to provide this attractive platform for local businesses. 

Let’s explore what the Foursquare platform currently offers local merchants.  Once a business owner claims her venue on Foursquare, she quickly has a powerful set of tools at her fingertips.  Business owners have the ability to create, and share their personally tailored specials.  Some skeptics might ask how is this different from your everyday daily deal site.  The answer is pretty clear. This is a special created by the business owner, the person who best understands the needs of the business, and its customers better than anyone else.  The Foursquare platform also allows you to create specials in minutes, so a business owner can have different specials available at different times of day, or during specific weather events.  For example, the coffee shop might be a little slow on a rainy Wednesday afternoon; now the owner can create a special offering free Biscotti with every purchase. A huge advantage of being an active merchant on Foursquare is the access you have to valuable data via the Merchant Dashboard.  A business owner gets full access to real-time data about her customers, including: total daily check-ins over time, most recent visitors, most frequent visitors, gender breakdown of your customers, what time of day people check in, and portion of your venue’s foursquare check-ins that are broadcast to Twitter and Facebook.  All of these tools are FREE!  The platform is allowing business owners to garner insights into their customers that were never possible before.  With all this valuable information, merchants are in a much better position to create more effective specials, reward loyal customers, and make critical business decisions that can impact their revenue.

I am confident the Foursquare platform will continue to improve. The team is constantly iterating, and shipping at an incredible pace. The real challenge is making local business owners aware of the myriad of services available to them, and communicating the value of being active on Foursquare for their business.  In the past we have seen in order to try and achieve these goals, companies have been forced to employ huge sales teams, that make thousands of calls a day.  We have also seen that this model is not economically efficient, and needs to be approached differently.  I believe the combination of more local business owners becoming knowledgeable about technology/social media, combined with the extremely passionate Foursquare users, who are likely to suggest (maybe demand) specials from their favorite local establishments, has placed a very unique opportunity in front of Foursquare.  Serving as the platform by which millions of local businesses connect to their existing, and future customers, by allowing owners to advertise, interact, and reward their customers, is a tremendous opportunity.  I think Foursquare is in the unique position to seize this opportunity, and become the company that finally conquers local.  

