---
title: Swimming In The Flood of Data
desc:  We're creating more data than ever before, but the real key is finding meaning in all of it
---

We are creating more data than ever before.  With high-speed internet we can visit more sites, in a shorter period of time. We are making an increasing number of our purchases online, for digital, and physical products.  Many people are going to school online.  In fact, with the widespread adoption of smartphones, many of us are always online.  What we watch, where we go, who we are with, what we are doing, and what we care about is always being recorded.  Many of our real life activities are now fusing with our digital worlds.  This development has allowed us to create more data than at any point before in history.  With data being created by essentially everything people do, at every moment of the day, it is only natural to surmise that the greatest opportunities of the future lie in our ability to make sense of these oceans of data that are being created every second.

There is  more accessible data available today than in the past on people’s sleep habits, exercise habits, food intake, location, likes/dislikes, interests, relationships, purchase history, and countless other things.  For science, and business purposes it is important that we are able to make sense of all this incoming information, to form new insights, that can work towards improving our own lives, and various interactions we have with one another in real life.  If the access that websites often have to our interest graph, was made available to brick and mortar retailers, wouldn’t that drastically improve/change the shopping experience?  If people could make sense of their own exercise, sleep, and eating habits, couldn’t that encourage healthier living, and maybe even make diagnoses of illnesses easier for doctors?  The possibilities are truly endless, I think we are just in the first inning for a lot of this stuff, but is is incredibly exciting to think about a data-filled future, and how it could reshape, and improve our lives.

