---
title: Managing Email Overload
desc:  Everyone needs a strategy
---

It seems these days that every single person is overwhelmed by their inbox.  We are all bombarded with personal messages, daily deals, blogs, advertisements, promotions, and countless other messages.  Inbox zero is an accomplishment that is touted on twitter, often with the same enthusiasm as climbing Mt Everest.  People have tried unsubscribing from superfluous emails, marking things as spam, and utilizing various email services so they only have to deal with the messages an algorithm deems most important.  All these solutions might work to decrease the burden of never ending email, but none of them actually solve the problem. 

In the New Year I implemented a new strategy to try and win my personal battle with email overload.  The basis of my new approach to email is rooted in creating three separate email addresses, and using each one for very separate, and distinct purposes.  The first is my Gmail account, which I only use to communicate with friends, and family.  I know if there is a new message in that inbox that it is something sent directly to me, from someone I know personally.  The second is a work related account, which I give out at events, and use for professional networking, and work related communications.  Finally, I have a third account that is for everything else that the other two accounts don’t include; this account serves as my catchall bucket.  This account is where every blog, online service, online purchase, and daily deal transaction I deal with goes.  This is the address that I readily give out when navigating the web everyday.  Knowing that the messages that come to my bucket are not urgent, and don’t require immediate attention, allows me to focus on getting stuff done, rather than being a slave to every new message that hits my inbox.  Using these three separate accounts, for clearly defined purposes, has allowed me to in a sense to hack my very own priority inbox.  I would love to know what other people are doing to effectively deal with the onslaught of email messages.  