---
title: The Inevitable Rise of The Pirates
desc:  Finding what you want to watch when you want to watch it needs to be easier
---

Inspired by a brilliant [Oatmeal cartoon](http://theoatmeal.com/comics/game_of_thrones).
It is the internet’s dirty little not so secret problem that many people choose not to talk about.  Lost in all the noise about cutting the cord, and disrupting the cable companies, many intelligent individuals have glossed over the darker corner of the internet- torrents.  At this very moment I can begin downloading countless free movies, TV shows, full musical discographies, and software.  I imagine the number of people using torrents right now is still a small minority, but the tide could soon be shifting, and more pirates might come to the surface.

The new class of pirates is not comprised of bad people; rather they are frustrated individuals, who are armed with the know-how, and ability to find what they want, when they want it.  Getting what you want, when you want it, is the fundamental idea that is driving everyday law abiding citizens to explore illicit corners of the web.  There are many people who are willing to take out their credit cards, and pay for the ability to watch, and listen to exactly what they want- but they are simply not presented with suitable options.

Networks and studios have failed to realize that the idea of people sitting down during a designated time, in front of their television set to catch the latest episode of The Walking Dead is archaic, and not realistic.  Consumers now have a myriad of devices they use to consume content: tablet, phone, laptop, desktop, DVR, etc.  In order to monetize the content effectively the distribution channels need to innovate quickly, or risk being pushed aside.  Imagine I just missed tonight’s episode of Revenge, and forgot to set my DVR to record it.  What options do I have if I want to watch it before work tomorrow? Where everyone will be talking about the episode, not to mention the conversation on Twitter, and all the blogs.  It won’t be on Netflix until the season is over (if at all), iTunes will usually have it the next day, and Amazon won’t have it the same night either. Wait, I could check the ABC website, or Hulu- they serve ads that I can’t fast forward through, so it is even better for the network than if I watched it on my DVR, but alas it won’t be available until tomorrow either.  Seems like I am out of luck…or am I?  A simple Google search can lead me to countless places on the internet where I can stream, or download the show for free, without any commercial interruption, and it is available within hours of the show’s initial airing.  Netflix, iTunes, Amazon, ABC, Hulu- five monetization options that failed to capitalize on the opportunity to capture an audience, resulting in the birth of a potential pirate.

I am not going to get into all the things the studios, and networks need to fix, such as: improved access to content, better selection, multiple device access, improved pricing, improved service, and the list goes on, and on.  Older generations might be satisfied with the way things work currently, or simply be resigned to the fact that they have no other options, but the generation younger than mine, the digital natives, and all the generations that come after them, are the ones that should scare the incumbent content owners/distributors.  They know how to get what they want, when they want it, and if you don’t give them the opportunity to pay for it enough times, they might stop trying forever.  If that happens, the old guard will be the ones searching for their lost treasure.