---
title: Catching Up is Hard to Do
desc:  In an always online, sharing-powered world, mystery is becoming a thing of the past
---

We should catch up sometime, we have all said it, but is the idea of catching up as relevant as it used to be?  Over the holiday season three of my friends went on an incredible trip to Brazil for ten days, with the promise that we would catch up when we were all back in NYC in 2012.  The catch was, we had nothing to catch up about when they returned.  Let me explain.  In the age of WhatsApp, Instagram, Foursquare, Facebook, and e-mail I was able to follow my three friends antics with a virtual play by play throughout their trip.  I knew what places they were visiting, what steak house they were having dinner, and what nightclubs they were partying at by simply following their Foursquare check-ins.  I knew who was annoying whom, or who had done something ridiculous the previous night, because I would receive WhatsApp messages as everything was happening, and receive full recaps via e-mail the next morning.  The Instagram pictures let me see what they saw as they traveled through Rio, and Florianopolis.  Three fun guys will make a lot of cool friends as they travel, and party in a fun country such as Brazil.  I was able to see who all these friends were,  often only hours after my friends met them for the first time, since my Facebook newsfeed would indicate that three of my friends just became friends with someone new.  You get the point, I wasn’t there, but I was practically there.  I was there enough to the point that a recap of their vacation would almost be boring, it would only serve to color in some of the details that would be ambiguous from the social media sketch I was able to create in my own head.

I love being able to see what my friends are up to through various social networks, especially post-college, as they are spread out all over the world.  But when we do catch up in person, or the phone, I find that the structure of conversations has changed.  We no longer ask what are you up to, or how is everything?  Rather we have specific questions we want more information about.  “I saw you are hanging out with a new girl, how did that happen? You posted something about going to Asia this summer, what is that all about?” We have become virtual spectators of our friends’ lives, only checking in occasionally to conduct a more in depth interview.  It is a less extreme version of interviewing a reality TV star, right after the most recent episode has aired.  I am glad that these services exist so we can all feel that we are apart of our friends, and families lives, regardless of the actual distances between us. I just find it interesting how the nature of our conversations has changed as a result.