---
title: Education For The Masses: Global Game Changer?
desc: Access to technology is transformative for education
---

*“There are 4 billion cell phones in use today. Many of them are in the hands of market vendors, rickshaw drivers, and others who’ve historically lacked access to education and opportunity. Information networks have become a great leveler, and we should use them together to help lift people out of poverty and give them a freedom from want.”* 
- **Hillary Clinton**

We are living during an incredible time in history. Technology has changed the lives of billions of people around the globe. Many of us carry extremely powerful computers in our pockets, that allows us to experience the world around us, and connect with people near and far, on a level that could only be imagined in science fiction several decades ago. It is startling in contrast to see many parts of the world still struggling to acquire what many of us take for granted in our daily lives. Food, clean water, somewhere safe to sleep, access to basic health care, the ability to attend school, and basic freedoms are still not available to every person on the planet. Despite all the significant progress we have made as a people, we need to concentrate our efforts on making our incredible advances available to everyone, regardless of where they live, or how much money they have.

Access to education provides opportunity, options, fresh perspective, and the ability to impact one’s own destiny. There are countless numbers of people in the world who never are afforded the opportunity to realize a fraction of their potential, education could help tap into that unrealized potential, creating endless new possibilities. The challenges of providing everyone around the world with a high level of education have been vast, varied, and seemingly insurmountable, but now with rapidly improving technology, it appears the tide is turning.

The rise of the mobile web is changing everything. In areas where it was not practical and/or affordable to own a PC, people are now able to rely on mobile phones, and tablets. Everyday more of the world is coming online, and able to access an incredible amount of information that seemed unattainable until very recently. There is an incredible amount of learning tools, and educational content on the web, much of it contributed by the top institutions in the world for free. We are hearing more stories of school children across the world accessing the lessons, and ideas from the top professors at Harvard, MIT, Stanford, and many other Universities. That is an incredible statement to be able to write. Not everyone will have the opportunity to go to a top University, but now it is possible to still access many of the educational resources that the students at those schools use.

As more people are able to garner an education online, I think we will see tremendous positive change. We will see a world that will overall be better equipped to tackle the hard problems that have plagued us for many years. I would even argue that someone who spends her daily life experiencing certain issues, now armed with an education, might be the best qualified person to lead the effort to improve the situation, and likely the most motivated. I am excited to live in a time where more people are being offered more options to do more than ever before, but I am also aware that we have a very long way to go. Technology is helping to shift the tide, and I look forward to seeing what a more educated world can achieve together in the future.