---
title: The Real Social Graph
desc:  Your phone's contact list might be the most accurate social graph
---

Mobile. Mobile. Mobile. Mobile. Every technology company is constantly asserting the importance of building for mobile, being mobile first, and pointing out how a growing number of users are increasingly interacting with services from mobile devices. As the world continues to become more mobile focused, I think it is important to note that many of the assets that were extremely valuable on the web, are being disrupted in the mobile domain. One important example that jumps out to me is how Facebook’s social graph is no longer necessary for me to discover friends when I sign up for a new app or service. The real social graph, the one that is most representative of the people that I truly interact with, and deem important is my mobile phone’s address book. When looking for friends to follow on Instagram, I simply allow the app to access my address book, I don’t need to go through all of my Facebook friends- I hide many of them on my FB newsfeed, I definitely don’t want to follow them in the more intimate environment of Instagram.

I think Facebook’s social graph has a fundamental problem, the data is flawed, inaccurate, and misleading. Many people are friends with people who are no longer in their lives, or that they never even knew in real life. They like brands that they were asked to by a friend, or because they were given something in return for liking the page. The social graph is increasingly becoming filled with more noise, and very little signal. The highest signal social graph is the one that exists in everyone’s contact list on their mobile device, those are the people we care about, and want to engage with across different ecosystems across the web. Facebook needs to find a way to keep their social graph relevant, and useful in a world that is rapidly shifting towards mobile.