---
title: FB You vs. Snapchat You- Will The Real You Please Stand Up
desc: Snapchat fosters an authenticity reminiscent of the early days on Facebook
---

I joined Facebook on April 27, 2004. One of the first people to do so at Emory University, I was a freshman in college. In the early years of Facebook, the site was a digital playground, but most importantly, a fenced in playground. It was limited to college students, people said things, and posted pictures without thinking about long term consequences, or real world ramifications. Our parents, teachers, and future employers were not on the site, it was a place where people felt like they could really be themselves, or more realistically a highly edited/polished version of themselves. Think about it, people meticulously picked what pictures made them look cool, would garner comments, and what special moments/thoughts they wanted to display for their friends to see. Zuckerberg and company encouraged people to share more about themselves, explaining that if people were open/authentic online, it would translate into being more transparent in real life. But things began to develop differently, as Facebook continued to colonize the internet, and opened itself up to everyone, there were suddenly more eyeballs on each and everyone of us, this naturally made our online selves more unnatural. Countless stories of people getting fired, suspended, and divorced for what they said or did on Facebook became commonplace. Facebook has now become the default way in which we represent who we are, or more importantly who we want to be seen as to our family/friends. Our Facebook selves are highly curated, and carefully crafted identities, that have been heavily edited, because the audience has changed, along with the dynamics of the platform. The idea that what we publish to Facebook is easily accessible by our “friends” years later, and can be easily shared outside our own social graph has fed into the need to be extremely cognizant of what we share.

A new service has popped up that is the anti-Facebook in many ways. It exists solely on your mobile device, and messages/images you share are ephemeral, after being viewed they disappear. Snapchat by design, is encouraging all of us to be our more authentic selves with one another. We can only share images that we take in that moment, no accessing your camera roll to share that beautifully cropped, and filtered image of yourself. You can pick your exact audience for a picture/text/drawing, and trust that the content will disappear in seconds. The interactions feel lighter, you can send a casual hello, or picture of something totally ordinary that you saw on your commute, or maybe most importantly a picture of yourself without having to make sure you look great, or are doing something special. Without having to broadcast the images to your entire social graph, we are able to feel more natural, and authentic with our friends on 1:1 basis. The fact that the content disappears after seconds, also helps to eliminate people’s fear that stuff will be shared outside of their control. I have started using Snapchat more and more often, as an increasing number of friends have signed up. We send each other pictures of ourselves making stupid faces, pictures of our desks, and other seemingly mundane things we come across in our daily lives. Some of my more artistic friends even add illustrations to their pictures. A response to snaps never feels obligatory, and you never even know if you were the only person the snap was sent to. I have seen my friends be more of themselves on Snapchat in the past few months, than I have seen on Facebook or Instagram in years. It almost feels like 2004 again…the good ol’ days.

