---
title: Twitter- TV’s Darling
desc: Twitter drives television viewership
---

Television and the internet have shared a rapidly changing relationship, that has often been strained by the struggle between maintaining the status quo, and innovating towards the future. For decades networks have made big money from cable providers, and selling advertising during their programming. Technology has slowly been upending that model, more people were pirating content, streaming it legally/illegally on the web, or DVR-ing shows, and skipping the advertisements altogether, then something unexpected happened. Technology helped make live TV relevant again. More specifically, Twitter has helped move people away from DVR, and back into the habit of watching programs when they air in real-time. During TV shows, sporting events, and award shows it is not uncommon to see people reacting in real time to what is happening on the screen. If you are not following along in real time, it is easy to feel out of the loop, and disconnected from the conversation of the moment. It is incredible to observe something small during a live telecast, to see it has quickly turned into meme, or trending topic on Twitter. People are also indirectly encouraged to watch TV shows when they first air, or risk the episode being spoiled my someone on their timeline.

There has been a lot of conversation about the emergence of the second screen, assuming the first screen is television, but the rise of Twitter has challenged that assumption. The conversation happening in users’ timelines is driving them to turn on their televisions. Personally, there have been countless times where I have been on the computer, not near a television, only to see my timeline explode with people tweeting about a game going to overtime, a pitcher throwing a perfect game, the premiere of some highly anticipated new show, or an award show host who says something controversial, that has sent me to my TV. Twitter has impacted when people tune in, and changed what they are doing when they tune in. You can be sitting alone in your room watching a TV show, but you are only a few clicks away from joining an already ongoing conversation with millions of other people. An experience that has recently become increasingly solitary, as we transition to consuming content on our personal devices, has once again become communal, just on a global scale.

It will be interesting to see deeper integrations between networks, and Twitter. It is important for networks to have a presence where their viewers are spending more of their time. As Twitter continues to grow its influence on Television, I wonder if networks will adapt, and begin airing certain programming at the same time in all time zones. I cannot imagine having to force myself from staying off all social media for several hours in order to avoid the inevitable *Game of Thrones* spoilers.