---
title: Why Do I Still Have Unlimited Texting?
desc: With the rise of messaging apps, SMS still has a seat at the table
---

WhatsApp, MessageMe, Kik, Viber, Tango, BBM, iMessage, G-Talk, Google Voice, Hangouts, FB Messenger, and many other apps allow smartphone users to send messages to one another using data, rather than counting as SMS messages. Despite a myriad of data based messaging options, many people are still paying for monthly texting plans, myself included. I started thinking about if it was necessary to still pay for unlimited texting, or if I was just wasting a bunch of money annually, for messages I hardly used. Next I thought about why so many other people were also continuing to pay for monthly texting plans, and I think I might have a theory.

Before the wide adoption of smartphones, text was the way many people used to communicate with one another. As the corporate world began to adopt Blackberries, they had an enclosed messaging platform in BBM that was limited to other Blackberry users, so it was still important to be able to text people with non-blackberry cell phones. There was a point before the iPhone was released where almost everyone in my peer group had Blackberries, Blackberry Messenger was our de facto way of communication, it was a separate, and enclosed network only for Blackberry users. Despite using BBM for the majority of our text based communications, we still needed SMS, because not everyone was on a Blackberry, a fact that became increasingly clear once the iPhone came out. As more people left Blackberry for iPhones, and later Android based smartphones, the networks effects, and what made BBM special, quickly began to disappear.

With the rise of third party applications on smartphones, the promise of data based messaging was alive again. Except all these apps despite some gaining wide adoption, didn’t become the default messaging app for large groups of people, because many people used different messaging apps. None of the apps were the default pre-installed messaging app on a large enough platform. When Apple announced iMessage, I was very excited, I thought the promise of BBM would be delivered on a large scale, and maybe they would open it up as an app that could be downloaded to any mobile OS, not just limited to iOS…but Apple lived up to its reputation of being closed. I think Apple missed a huge opportunity, they could have taken a huge shot at killing SMS, and owning a large chunk of text based communication on connected devices. Instead, we continue to pay for text plans every month, despite conducting the majority of our texting over iMessage, Whatsapp, and other third party applications. 

In my opinion open platform third party apps will continue to grow, but there is a huge psychological, and behavior based barrier that they are going up against. The only messaging platform that can truly replace SMS is one that comes as the default pre-installed messaging application on iOS, or Android. It has to be open, and able to be used on all mobile operating systems. I think Apple is the company to do it, unfortunately I don’t think it will be the one to do it. Here’s to hoping…until then, you can text me, I have unlimited texting!