---
title: Interest Graph- The More Important Online Graph?
desc: Often strangers are more interesting than our friends
---

Facebook has found its way into almost every corner of the internet, and app ecosystem by touting its Social Graph. The graph instantly informs services of who your friends are, making the onboarding process for a new service increasingly faster, and as a bonus eliminating the cold-start problem that many new services suffer from. But a new graph has been emerging, one that is arguably going to prove to be more important moving forward. This new graph is the interest graph, one informed by your likes, check-ins, purchases, and engagement with various kinds of content. We are seeing the rising importance of the interest graph, the interest graph will eventually power intimate connections between like-minded people. If I look at my own behavior online, I realize that the social graph I have is flawed, and doesn’t represent my real world interests/passions.  Excluding my real world friends, whom I text with, talk to on the phone, and see in real life, the majority of my Facebook “friends” are people from high school, classmates from college I will most likely never see again, and random people I meet at weddings who want to share wedding pictures. The only things I like on Facebook besides Taylor Swift are companies, organizations, or artists that are somehow associated with a friend of mine.

If you wanted to see what I was truly interested in, the people/brands I follow, and engage with on Twitter would be the strongest indicator, and the best dataset to create my interest graph. The people I follow on Twitter are the individuals whose ideas I find interesting, I engage with the content they produce, and share, and frankly they are the people I would like to meet in real life, and form closer relationships with. Closer offline relationships would encourage a healthy exchange of ideas, and encourage more in depth conversation. Twitter is an incredible engine for serendipity. Any service that could tap into a graph informed by my behavior on Twitter, would have tremendous insight into the kind of people I would want to connect with online, along with the kind of content, and messaging that would highly relevant to me. The interest graph is indeed coming, and I’m excited to see what the future holds.