---
title: OS dropboX
desc:  Local file storage is quickly becoming a thing of the past
---

Music, videos, pictures, spreadsheets, and text documents. Those are the types of files that fill the HD on my laptop, and my two external HDs. Increasingly, my digital life is moving into the cloud. I stream music from Songza, Spotify, and YouTube, rarely opening up my iTunes library. My videos and pictures are stored locally in folders on an external drive, and inside of iPhoto, but the entire library is also backed up on Snapjoy and Flickr. When possible, I am now writing in Google Docs, rather than creating MS Word documents. For simple spreadsheets, Google Docs’ alternative to excel is sufficient.  I am becoming less dependent on my actual machine, and appreciate the flexibility of being able to access all my files from any device, anywhere in the world.

Currently the storage of my files in the cloud is fragmented, mainly due to functionality/UI issues. For basic file storage Dropbox is great, but for pictures Flickr is a service built specifically for that purpose. Being able to stream music through a service like Songza is also an easy experience, rather than having to browse folders of files in Dropbox. If Dropbox had applications built in that allowed me to create text/spreadsheet documents, it would be preferable to create, and save documents in that environment. With the acquisitions of Snapjoy (photos) and Audiogalaxy (music), it is becoming clear that Dropbox is taking its first steps towards creating tailored experiences for storing, and interacting with specific kinds of content. I don’t think it is crazy to envision a time in the near future where we can access Dropbox from any computer, and have it feel like our own machine, with all of our digital files, presented in an intuititve, and intelligent way. Streaming my own music library while on a friend’s computer, while being able to show him pictures from my weekend in California, and being able to write a blog all while in the Dropbox environment could be a reality in the near future. Dropbox will continue to innovate, and strengthen its network effects by offering an attractive platform that will encourage users to invest, and entrust their digital lives to the service. I look forward to living in the cloud!

*BTW- I know the X in OS X is a ten…but I wanted to be clever with the title.* :)